README.md, before:

# What is this?
This repository is the **ZALiA** GameMaker:Studio project including most, if not all, of its contents. 

If you're just looking for the game to play, it can be downloaded [here](https://hoverbat.itch.io/ziiaol).

[**ZALiA**(**Zelda Again: Link is Adventuresome**)](https://youtu.be/BeVDs5hIxFg?t=705) is a *Zelda II: The Adventure of Link* fan game created by [**HoverBat**](https://github.com/HoverBat1) in GameMaker:Studio with the goal of creating more Zelda II content. Although it's written in GML(Game Maker Language), the gameplay is accurate to the original's because it is a direct tranlation of the original's assembly code. ZALiA's content is mostly vanilla Zelda II but includes a bunch of added content and a ton of QOL(Quality of Life) improvements.

# License
Please read our [license](LICENSE) before distributing, modifying, contributing to, or otherwise interacting with this project.


# Contributing
Please read our [Contribution Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) before opening any issues or creating pull requests.

Additionally, it would be most helpful if you joined the [Zelda Again: Link is Adventuresome Discord server](https://discord.gg/Z4H2RhwP4p) if you plan on contributing to the project. You can find some development files there such as my notes on what a specific RAM address is used for and a text file of dissected assembly.


# Disclaimer(s)
A warning that much of this code is messy, uses unusual solutions, and does not hold to our established formatting style - this is a result of HoverBat's disorganization, and his nature as a bat.

I'm still new the world of sharing source code and working with a community on a project. I'm not quite sure what to do next, but I'm sure there's plenty [TODO](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3AZA-LiA%2FZALiA%20todo&type=code).


# Requirements
* **GameMaker:Studio 1.4.9999** - the IDE for editing and compiling this project.
  * Someone informed me you can still get [**GameMaker:Studio 1.4.9999**](http://store.yoyogames.com/downloads/gm-studio/release-notes-studio.html). If you have trouble trusting links: Go to GameMaker's official home page (I've been told you need a YoYo account and license number, but typing gibberish into the license field works) > Click on Blog at the top > Scroll down to find the search bar > Search **1.4.9999** > Click on search result: **GAMEMAKER:STUDIO 1.4.9999 RELEASED**
* If you can't get a copy of GameMaker:Studio 1.4.9999, I've been told [Undertale Mod Tool](https://github.com/UnderminersTeam/UndertaleModTool) can be used though I'm not familiar with it.

# Player Skins
There are ~3800 additional sprites due to the player skins. I have removed all but the default skin so that all the extras are not in the way during development.

When it's time to release the project, or if you would like to include any of the extra skins during development:
1. Download [this](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1CqalzaXPOK8w75XwTWi7Jii7BWXYEMlj/view?usp=sharing) folder and unzip. It contains all the player skin gmx files and the image files that go with them.
2. In **GameMaker:Studio** > In the assets tree > In the **Sprites** folder > Right click on the **player_character** folder > Click **Add Existing Sprite**.
3. In the window that pops up, navigate to the **individual_sprites_format** folder inside the downloaded skins folder > Select the gmx files of which skins you want (Do not select **spr_PCSkin_KazunobuShimizu_Link01.sprite.gmx** as it's the default skin already in the project)
4. In **GameMaker:Studio** > In the assets tree > In the **Scripts** folder > In the **game_object** folder > In the **goa** folder > Open the **GameObjectA_init** script > Find the comment `// UNCOMMENT WHICH SKINS YOU WILL USE HERE` > Uncomment which skins you're going to use.

Commit message:

added import audio sets instructions in README

README.md, after:

# What is this?
This repository is the **ZALiA** GameMaker:Studio project including most, if not all, of its contents. 

If you're just looking for the game to play, it can be downloaded [here](https://hoverbat.itch.io/ziiaol).

[**ZALiA**(**Zelda Again: Link is Adventuresome**)](https://youtu.be/BeVDs5hIxFg?t=705) is a *Zelda II: The Adventure of Link* fan game created by [**HoverBat**](https://github.com/HoverBat1) in GameMaker:Studio with the goal of creating more Zelda II content. Although it's written in GML(Game Maker Language), the gameplay is accurate to the original's because it is a direct tranlation of the original's assembly code. ZALiA's content is mostly vanilla Zelda II but includes a bunch of added content and a ton of QOL(Quality of Life) improvements.

# License
Please read our [license](LICENSE) before distributing, modifying, contributing to, or otherwise interacting with this project.


# Contributing
Please read our [Contribution Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) before opening any issues or creating pull requests.

Additionally, it would be most helpful if you joined the [Zelda Again: Link is Adventuresome Discord server](https://discord.gg/Z4H2RhwP4p) if you plan on contributing to the project. You can find some development files there such as my notes on what a specific RAM address is used for and a text file of dissected assembly.


# Disclaimer(s)
A warning that much of this code is messy, uses unusual solutions, and does not hold to our established formatting style - this is a result of HoverBat's disorganization, and his nature as a bat.

I'm still new the world of sharing source code and working with a community on a project. I'm not quite sure what to do next, but I'm sure there's plenty [TODO](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3AZA-LiA%2FZALiA%20todo&type=code).


# Requirements
* **GameMaker:Studio 1.4.9999** - the IDE for editing and compiling this project.
  * Someone informed me you can still get [**GameMaker:Studio 1.4.9999**](http://store.yoyogames.com/downloads/gm-studio/release-notes-studio.html). If you have trouble trusting links: Go to GameMaker's official home page (I've been told you need a YoYo account and license number, but typing gibberish into the license field works) > Click on Blog at the top > Scroll down to find the search bar > Search **1.4.9999** > Click on search result: **GAMEMAKER:STUDIO 1.4.9999 RELEASED**
* If you can't get a copy of GameMaker:Studio 1.4.9999, I've been told [Undertale Mod Tool](https://github.com/UnderminersTeam/UndertaleModTool) can be used though I'm not familiar with it.

# Player Skins
There are ~3800 additional sprites due to the player skins. I have removed all but the default skin so that all the extras are not in the way during development.

When it's time to release the project, or if you would like to include any of the extra skins during development:
1. Download [**files_for_importing_pc_skins**](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1CqalzaXPOK8w75XwTWi7Jii7BWXYEMlj/view?usp=sharing) folder and unzip. It contains all the player skin .gmx files and the .png image files that go with them.
2. In **GameMaker:Studio** > In the assets tree > In the **Sprites** folder > Right click on the **player_character** folder > Click **Add Existing Sprite**.
3. In the window that pops up, navigate to the **individual_sprites_format** folder inside the downloaded skins folder > Select the .gmx files of which skins you want (Do not select **spr_PCSkin_KazunobuShimizu_Link01.sprite.gmx** as it's the default skin already in the project)
4. In **GameMaker:Studio** > In the assets tree > In the **Scripts** folder > In the **game_object** folder > In the **goa** folder > Open the **GameObjectA_init** script > Find the comment `// UNCOMMENT WHICH SKINS YOU WILL USE HERE` > Uncomment which skins you're going to use.

# Alternate Audio Sets
The largest files are audio, and there are 9 extra audio sets added by the community and HoverBat. Because this can slow down development time, I have removed most of them until a new release.

When it's time to release the project, or if you would like to include any of the extra audio sets during development:
1. Download [**files_for_importing_community_audio**](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1AZmX07ezTJl5BPfcL2bHYheAR5X0dsNW/view?usp=sharing) folder and unzip. It contains all the .gmx files of the extra audio sets and the .mp3/.wav files that go with them.
2. In **GameMaker:Studio** > In the assets tree > In the **Sounds** folder you will find several empty folders; **ZeldaII_FDS**, **IsabelleChiming**, **SteelCrescent**, **SteelCrescent_Alt**, **SteelCrescent_NESPlus**, **SteelCrescent_Skug**, **SteelCrescent_Synth**, **Wyng**. You will have to import the audio set one at a time. > Right click on an audio set's folder > Click **Add Existing Sound**.
3. In the window that pops up, navigate to the downloaded **files_for_importing_community_audio** folder > Inside it, open the folder that matches the audio set you're importing > Select all of the .gmx files in that folder > Click **Open**.
